doc/global/index.rst, before:

MESSAGEix-GLOBIOM
=================

These webpages document the IIASA Integrated Assessment Modeling (IAM) framework, also referred to as |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM, owing to the fact that the energy model |MESSAGEix| and the land use model GLOBIOM are its most important components. |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM was developed for the quantification of the so-called Shared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs) which are the first application of the IAM framework.

**This documentation is under constant development and is being expanded with additional information to reflect the latest changes in the modeling framework.**

When referring to |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM as described in this document, please use the following citations (Download :download:`ris </_static/message-globiom.ris>`, :download:`BibTeX </_static/message-globiom.bib>`):

* Krey V, Havlik P, Kishimoto PN, Fricko O, Zilliacus J, Gidden M, Strubegger M, Kartasasmita G, Ermolieva T, Forsell N, Guo F, Gusti M, Huppmann D, Johnson N, Kikstra J, Kindermann G, Kolp P, Lovat F, McCollum DL, Min J, Pachauri S, Parkinson SC, Rao S, Rogelj J, Ünlü G, Valin H, Wagner P, Zakeri B, Obersteiner M, Riahi K (2020) |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM Documentation - 2020 release. International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), Laxenburg, Austria `https://docs.messageix.org/global/ <https://docs.messageix.org/global/>`_.

* Fricko O, Havlik P, Rogelj J, Klimont Z, Gusti M, Johnson N, Kolp P, Strubegger M, Valin H, Amann M, Ermolieva T, Forsell N, Herrero M, Heyes C, Kindermann G, Krey V, McCollum DL, Obersteiner M, Pachauri S, Rao S, Schmid E, Schoepp W, Riahi K (2017) The marker quantification of the Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 2: A middle-of-the-road scenario for the 21st century. Global Environmental Change, Volume 42, Pages 251-26, `DOI:10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.06.004 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.06.004>`_.

The |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM Integrated Assessment Model is based on the |MESSAGEix|
framework, an open-source energy systems optimization modelling environment
including macro-economic feedback using a stylized computable general
equilibrium model.
When referring to the software underpinning |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM rather than the data
or specific assessments, please use the following citation:

* Huppmann D, Gidden M, Fricko O, Kolp P, Orthofer C, Pimmer M, Kushin N, Vinca A, Mastrucci A, Riahi K, Krey V (2019) The |MESSAGEix| Integrated Assessment Model and the ix modeling platform (ixmp): An open framework for integrated and cross-cutting analysis of energy, climate, the environment, and sustainable development. Environmental Modelling & Software, Volume 112, Pages 143-156, `DOI:0.1016/j.envsoft.2018.11.012 <https://doi.org/0.1016/j.envsoft.2018.11.012>`_.


We thank Edward Byers, Jessica Jewell, Ruslana Palatnik, Narasimha D. Rao, and Fabio Sferra for their valuable comments that helped improving this manuscript.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   overview/index
   socio_econ/index
   energy/index
   macro
   land_use/index
   water/index
   emissions/index
   climate/index
   annex/index

.. Leave these lines commented for releases; uncommented during development/on `master`.

   .. toctree::
      :hidden:

      _extra/index

Commit message:

Exclude glossary.rst, currently under development, from 2020 release

doc/global/index.rst, after:

MESSAGEix-GLOBIOM
=================

These webpages document the IIASA Integrated Assessment Modeling (IAM) framework, also referred to as |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM, owing to the fact that the energy model |MESSAGEix| and the land use model GLOBIOM are its most important components. |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM was developed for the quantification of the so-called Shared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs) which are the first application of the IAM framework.

**This documentation is under constant development and is being expanded with additional information to reflect the latest changes in the modeling framework.**

When referring to |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM as described in this document, please use the following citations (Download :download:`ris </_static/message-globiom.ris>`, :download:`BibTeX </_static/message-globiom.bib>`):

* Krey V, Havlik P, Kishimoto PN, Fricko O, Zilliacus J, Gidden M, Strubegger M, Kartasasmita G, Ermolieva T, Forsell N, Guo F, Gusti M, Huppmann D, Johnson N, Kikstra J, Kindermann G, Kolp P, Lovat F, McCollum DL, Min J, Pachauri S, Parkinson SC, Rao S, Rogelj J, Ünlü G, Valin H, Wagner P, Zakeri B, Obersteiner M, Riahi K (2020) |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM Documentation - 2020 release. International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), Laxenburg, Austria `https://docs.messageix.org/global/ <https://docs.messageix.org/global/>`_.

* Fricko O, Havlik P, Rogelj J, Klimont Z, Gusti M, Johnson N, Kolp P, Strubegger M, Valin H, Amann M, Ermolieva T, Forsell N, Herrero M, Heyes C, Kindermann G, Krey V, McCollum DL, Obersteiner M, Pachauri S, Rao S, Schmid E, Schoepp W, Riahi K (2017) The marker quantification of the Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 2: A middle-of-the-road scenario for the 21st century. Global Environmental Change, Volume 42, Pages 251-26, `DOI:10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.06.004 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.06.004>`_.

The |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM Integrated Assessment Model is based on the |MESSAGEix|
framework, an open-source energy systems optimization modelling environment
including macro-economic feedback using a stylized computable general
equilibrium model.
When referring to the software underpinning |MESSAGEix|-GLOBIOM rather than the data
or specific assessments, please use the following citation:

* Huppmann D, Gidden M, Fricko O, Kolp P, Orthofer C, Pimmer M, Kushin N, Vinca A, Mastrucci A, Riahi K, Krey V (2019) The |MESSAGEix| Integrated Assessment Model and the ix modeling platform (ixmp): An open framework for integrated and cross-cutting analysis of energy, climate, the environment, and sustainable development. Environmental Modelling & Software, Volume 112, Pages 143-156, `DOI:0.1016/j.envsoft.2018.11.012 <https://doi.org/0.1016/j.envsoft.2018.11.012>`_.


We thank Edward Byers, Jessica Jewell, Ruslana Palatnik, Narasimha D. Rao, and Fabio Sferra for their valuable comments that helped improving this manuscript.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   overview/index
   socio_econ/index
   energy/index
   macro
   land_use/index
   water/index
   emissions/index
   climate/index
   annex/index

.. Under development; excluded.
   See also the exclude_patterns setting in conf.py.

   glossary

.. Leave these lines commented for releases; uncommented during development/on
   `master`.

   .. toctree::
      :hidden:

      _extra/index
