doc/global/source/message_globiom/energy/resource/renewable.rst, before:

.. _renewable:

Non-Biomass Renewable Resources
================================
:numref:`tab-depl` shows the assumed total potentials of renewable energy deployment (by resource type) in the MESSAGE model by 2050. :numref:`fig-rendep` overlays these estimates on a map of the 11 MESSAGE regions. In addition, the assumptions are compared with technical potential estimates from the Global Energy Assessment (Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`).  In this context, it is important to note that typical MESSAGE scenarios do not consider the full technical potential of renewable energy resources, but rather only a subset of those potentials, owing to additional constraints (e.g., sustainability criteria, technology diffusion and systems integration issues, and other economic considerations) that may not be fully captured within the model. These constraints may lead to a significant reduction of the technical potential.

.. _tab-depl:
.. list-table:: Assumed global renewable energy deployment potentials in the MESSAGE model by 2050. Estimates from the Global Energy Assessment (Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`) also added for comparison.
   :widths: 13 36 46
   :header-rows: 2

   * - Source
     - MESSAGE
     - Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`
   * - 
     - Deployment Potential in 2050 [EJ/yr]
     - Technical Potential [EJ/yr]
   * - Bioenergy
     - 145
     - 160 - 270
   * - Hydro
     - 28
     - 50 - 60
   * - Wind
     - 170
     - 1250 - 2250
   * - Solar PV
     - 1650
     - 62,000 - 280,000
   * - CSP
     - 990
     - same as Solar PV above
   * - Geothermal
     - 23
     - 810 - 1400

*Notes: MESSAGE renewable energy potentials are based on Hoogwijk (2004)* :cite:`hoogwijk_global_2004`, *Hoogwijk and Graus (2008)* :cite:`hoogwijk_global_2008`, *Christiansson (1995)* :cite:`christiansson_diffusion_1995`, *Tubiello and Fischer (2007)* :cite:`tubiello_reducing_2007`, *van Vuuren et al. (2009)* :cite:`van_vuuren_future_2009`, *and Rogner et al (2012)* :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`. *The potentials for non-combustible renewable energy sources are specified in terms of the electricity or heat that can be produced by specific technologies (i.e., from a secondary energy perspective). By contrast, the technical potentials from* :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012` *refer to the flows of energy that could become available as inputs for technology conversion. So for example, the technical potential for wind is given as the kinetic energy available for wind power generation, whereas the deployment potential would only be the electricity that could be generated by the wind turbines.*

**[REMOVE OR UPDATE THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH AND FIGURE]**

While potentials for renewable energy can differ quite substantially between different regions, they are more equitably distributed across the globe than fossil fuels. On the other hand, renewable energy sources cannot be traded as easily before conversion to the secondary level, e.g., trade would typically occur after conversion to electricity or some processed solid, liquid or gaseous fuel. :numref:`fig-rendep` shows the renewable energy resource potentials for the 11 MESSAGE regions by 2050. The figure indicates the strong dominance of solar energy across almost all regions. An exception is bioenergy in tropical regions, and wind energy in North America and the Former Soviet Union countries, and to some extent in Europe. However, at a first glance it becomes clear that regionally some of the resources are scarce and the potentials could be exhausted relatively quickly, in particular in those regions with high population densities, which could lead to land use limitations for some of the renewable energy sources. This is particularly the case in Asia, most notably in South Asia, but also in Pacific Asia and partly in China). 

.. _fig-rendep:
.. figure:: /_static/map_3.3.png

   Renewable energy deployment potentials by region in 2050, as assumed in the MESSAGE model.

Commit message:

nucelar and non-bio renewable section split up acording to new structure

doc/global/source/message_globiom/energy/resource/renewable.rst, after:

.. _renewable:

Non-Biomass Renewable Resources
================================
:numref:`tab-depl` shows the assumed total potentials of renewable energy deployment (by resource type) in the MESSAGE model by 2050. :numref:`fig-rendep` overlays these estimates on a map of the 11 MESSAGE regions. In addition, the assumptions are compared with technical potential estimates from the Global Energy Assessment (Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`).  In this context, it is important to note that typical MESSAGE scenarios do not consider the full technical potential of renewable energy resources, but rather only a subset of those potentials, owing to additional constraints (e.g., sustainability criteria, technology diffusion and systems integration issues, and other economic considerations) that may not be fully captured within the model. These constraints may lead to a significant reduction of the technical potential.

.. _tab-depl:
.. list-table:: Assumed global non-biomass renewable energy deployment potentials in the MESSAGE model by 2050. Estimates from the Global Energy Assessment (Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`) also added for comparison.
   :widths: 13 36 46
   :header-rows: 2

   * - Source
     - MESSAGE
     - Rogner et al., 2012 :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`
   * - 
     - Deployment Potential in 2050 [EJ/yr]
     - Technical Potential [EJ/yr]
   * - Hydro
     - 28
     - 50 - 60
   * - Wind
     - 170
     - 1250 - 2250
   * - Solar PV
     - 1650
     - 62,000 - 280,000
   * - CSP
     - 990
     - same as Solar PV above
   * - Geothermal
     - 23
     - 810 - 1400

*Notes: MESSAGE-GLOBIOM renewable energy potentials are based on *Pietzcker et al. (2014)* :cite:`pietzcker_solar_2014`, *Eurek et al. (in review)* :cite:`eurek_wind_2016`, *Christiansson (1995)* :cite:`christiansson_diffusion_1995`, *and Rogner et al (2012)* :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012`. *The potentials for non-combustible renewable energy sources are specified in terms of the electricity or heat that can be produced by specific technologies (i.e., from a secondary energy perspective). By contrast, the technical potentials from* :cite:`rogner_chapter_2012` *refer to the flows of energy that could become available as inputs for technology conversion. So for example, the technical potential for wind is given as the kinetic energy available for wind power generation, whereas the deployment potential would only be the electricity that could be generated by the wind turbines.*

Regional resource potentials for solar and wind are classified according to resource quality (annual capacity factor) based on Pietzcker et al. (2014, :cite:`pietzcker_solar_2014`) and 
Eurek et al. (in review, :cite:`eurek_wind_2016`). Regional resource potentials as implemented into MESSAGE-GLOBIOM are provided by region and capacity factor for solar PV, concentrating solar 
power (CSP), and onshore/offshore wind in Johnson et al. (in review, :cite:`johnson_vre_2016`). The physical potential of these sources is assumed to be the same across all SSPs. However, 
the part of the resource that is useable at economically competitive costs is assumed to differ widely (see Section :ref:`electricity`).
